Dylan Wulf
David Shull
Fernando Faria

Konane Game implementation

================ Overview ================

In this project, we implemented a program to play the game of Konane
(Hawaiian Checkers) using the assigned language, Scheme. The game is typically
played on an 8 Ã— 8 board of light and dark pieces as shown (using X for dark
and O for light).

To have a meaningful implementation, our program used the Minimax search
algorithm with Alpha-Beta pruning. For each game, our program also provides the
following information:

  1. The number of times a static evaluation was done.
  2. The average branching factor.
  3. The number of cut offs that took place.

================ How to Run ================

To run this project, open the file "PL Final.rkt" using DrRacket. Next, press
the keys Ctrl+R on a Windows/Linux machine and Cmd+R on an OS X machine. Next,
enter moves into the prompt and view the computer's response. Continue to do
this until either player has won.

================ Input Format ================

To input moves, type in first the x coordinate, then the y coordinate of the
move that was made.

================ Bugs ================

Currently, there are a number of bugs in the code. First of all, moving a piece
to the left doesn't properly mark the previous space as empty. Next, the
Alpha-Beta pruning does not work at all, yet. Additionally, the second move of
the game does not use the Minimax evaluation function. Finally, error handling
is completely nonexistent.

================ Data Structures ================

For this project, we used Scheme lists and Scheme vectors (similar to arrays in
C-based languages). The Scheme lists are what everything in Scheme is composed
of, and we used them wherever car and cdr functionality would be helpful. The
vectors made it easy to select various coordinates on the game board, because
they are indexed by values.

================ Algorithms ================

We used a minimax algorithm, which tries to find the best possible move by
comparing all of the possible outcomes 3 moves out. It uses a static evaluation
function which returns a ratio of the number of computer player moveable pieces
by the number of opponent's moveable pieces. Our research indicated that this
evaluation function yielded the highest chance of success. Finally, the
Alpha-Beta pruning algorithm determined whether it was possible for a branch
to be a better choice than a current one. If it was not, then that branch would
not be explored.
